CHRONIC KIDNEY DISEASE PREDICTION USING MACHINE LEARNING

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a global health problem with high morbidity and mortality rate, and it induces other diseases. Since there are no obvious symptoms during the early stages of CKD, patients often fail to notice the disease. Early detection of CKD enables patients to receive timely treatment to ameliorate the progression of this disease. Chronic kidney disease is the loss of kidney function. Oftentimes, the symptoms of the disease are not noticeable and a significant amount of lives are lost annually due to the disease. It is a progressive harmful disease that is propagated in different situations. With the right tools, however, it is possible to make the correct decision in order to do the proper treatment. 

In this regard, machine learning classification algorithms play a vital part. Using various machine learning algorithms, the prognosis rate of the disease can be studied, and evaluated and proper actions can the taken based on the results and discussions. 

Machine learning models can effectively aid clinicians to achieve this goal due to their fast and accurate recognition performance. Using machine learning algorithms for medical studies, the disease can be predicted with a high accuracy rate and a very short time. Machine learning techniques have become reliable for medical treatment. In this project, we proposed a machine-learning methodology for diagnosing CKD. Our project aims to predict Chronic Kidney Disease based on full features and important features of the CKD dataset.
